emergency preparedness is essential and
today I'm going to review two products
which are critical for your Safety and
Security they are the LifeStraw and the
LifeStraw steel I do believe that these
are very important because water is our
most critical asset so let's look at
these right
now without a clean freshwater Source
we're in big trouble and it's not just
when you're backpacking when you're out
on the road this could happen at home
there are many cities around the world
which have their water supplies
contaminated and you need proper
filtration what I do recommend with the
LIF straw and the LIF straw steel is
that you use this as something that you
put in your vehicle you put on your boat
or your backpack if you're camping if
you're going out on the road it's a
great tool to have you may hope that you
never need to even use it but it is so
important to have so let's discuss the
basics about the LIF
straw the LIF straw and LIF straw steel
are essentially a straw that you stick
into a source of water whether that's a
pond or a stream and it would be able to
filter it on the fly so that you can
drink it and have a clean source of
water there are differences in between
these two products and I believe they
are very important now while the LIF
straw cost about $20 and the LIF straw
steel is about twice as much you need to
understand that it's not just Aesthetics
that are differing these two products
there is actually a significant
difference so it's up to you what you
need this for and how much you're
willing to
invest the original life straw is an
excellent and inexpensive product that
is used to filter two types of
contaminants it removes
99.999% of waterborne bacteria including
eoli and salmonella it also removes
99.9% of waterborne protozoa so these
are the two types that this particular
item will filter it will not filter
certain types of contaminants and that's
why you may want to upgrade to the
LifeStraw steel this particular item is
something that you would put in your
backpack in your RV in your car in your
boat and something that would take with
you backpacking when you're going to be
out on the road you would always have a
fresh Source or a clean freshwater
Source if you bring this item with you
now if you wanted that next level you
would use the LifeStraw steel so let's
get into that when you see the
difference you'll understand why there
are two different products here so you
get all of the filtration of the LIF
straw plus some added bonuses so the LIF
straw is made out of plastic whereas the
LifeStraw steel is made out of of course
stainless steel now the LIF straw is BPA
free
however this item here being a food
grade stainless steel is certainly an
upgrade it also gives you the TW stage
carbon capsule filter and that allows it
to filter out certain contaminants like
chlorine so this is a definite upgrade
from the LIF straw but it all depends on
what your source of the water is if you
don't expect there to be chlorine in
there in the first place you may not
have any need for that and of course if
it's something that you never want to
use but just keep in case of emergency
you may not really need that upgraded
device it all depends on what your needs
are in terms of their size they are
basically the same but their weight on
the steel is definitely heavier
obviously because of the material in
terms of construction they both feel
solid they were both uh equally you know
functional there was no difference in
that regard I would just say that the
two-stage carbon filter makes it
obviously a cleaner taste when you
consume it so that is one benefit of the
LIF straw steel now in terms of pricing
obviously the LifeStraw steel being
about twice as much as the LIF straw it
all depends again on your desires so
let's get in to the actual drinking test
I'm actually going to take a sip of tap
water from our local Taps here in
Toronto which is something that I
absolutely never do and I will use both
the LIF straw and LIF straw steel to do
so and I will give you a comparison and
Analysis we're going to begin with the
regular light straw you take the larger
end and put it inside your water source
and take a sip
the water tastes pretty clean I can
definitely taste that um I'm getting a
hint of the chlorine that's in the top
water so that is an issue that uh will
be discussed further and we'll compare
that to LIF straw steel which does in
fact filter up the chlorine so let's
take a look at
that next we'll give the LIF straw steel
a try so once again you put the larger
end inside your water source and give it
it it tastes approximately the same
though I do get less of a hint of that
chlorine that's in there perhaps a
little more Purity because of the
two-stage filter overall the
construction is definitely better I'm
getting a sense of the fact that this is
Steel versus the other item being a
plastic material but I would say that
both of them in an emergency type
preparedness system scario both would be
adequate so let's get further into this
here as we look at the different
products that are available from
LifeStraw they have so many so they have
the ones that I was uh reviewing today
whereas you see the LifeStraw personal
water filter the LifeStraw steel and you
get into some others I mean they have
the LifeStraw go which I think is
excellent so it's water bottle that you
can take with you BPA free it has a
filter built into it so that you can
pour someone else's water into there and
it would be a clean Source something
that you could take to you know a
friend's house or take to work or or
anything like that you can take that
poisonous water put it in there and You'
be able to have clean drinking water I
think that's excellent and and they have
a few other products actually coming um
down the road which I'll discuss more in
a moment now in terms of pricing in
terms of where to get these items you
can get it right from the LifeStraw
website if you so choose to you can also
get them from Amazon on other retailers
as well I do not um get any Kickbacks
for wherever you buy these from so it's
up to you Amazon also sells them I'm
noticing that Amazon has a sale on right
now that's $42 for the LifeStraw steel
so that's an excellent deal right now at
this time and the life straw is $1 1999
there as well so it's up to you which
one you like to look at I would just
suggest that every person have just at
least one of these as part of of their
emergency preparedness I do think that
it is very good to have I like these
products for
myself what I did was I emailed this
company and basically asked them said
look I love your product I know that my
subscribers will love this product as
well if they don't already have it and
if you send me one I will do a review of
them so that's exactly what I did they
shipped them to me and here we are so I
think that they're excellent I will be
keeping these uh one in the car and uh
one at home and being able to be
prepared to have that emergency
preparedness is essential it's just one
component of many components but I think
that water is essentially the most
important so having all different types
of filters you want your big berky type
water filters you want your life straw
type filters for on the go this is
important to have the more filtration
you have the better the more options the
better that's for sure so let's just
quickly get into what's coming down here
coming soon you can see that they have
all of these different types of products
and I thought it was amazing that they
were developing these here and that is
the LifeStraw Flex the LifeStraw play
and the LifeStraw Universal Universal I
thought was the most interesting concept
because it allows you to put a filter
onto any normal standard siiz bottle so
you could take one of those plastic
bottles that you get from the store and
if that's what you needed to drink that
day then you know we've all been there
and you could put your filter on it and
you'd be drinking clean water so that I
think is very important it's a two-stage
filter so you're going to get rid of a
lot of those contaminants that are
within that source and you'll be able to
have fresh clean water and you'll be
able to use this filter uh As You Wish
of course they would need to be replaced
after a period of time but that is a
good sign because it means that it's
removing those contaminants and the LIF
straw play is interesting as well
because it's designed for kids and
parents often may neglect the filtration
of their water supply and it is so
important for everyone but also for the
children too so that is another
two-stage filter it's a small bottle a
10 oz bottle and I'm I'm really looking
forward to that as well I think think
that uh these are something that I would
really like to review out there and um
LIF straw if you're listening you know
if you want to send me any of these I
will definitely do a review of these as
well I think these are excellent
products everybody should have many
different types of filters the more the
merrier as they say so I definitely give
these products two thumbs up in terms of
what would be better I definitely would
say that the steel is better as a
product but then again it's twice or
more of the price so it all depends
again on what you need these for and if
at anything you want to get the life
straw just put it in with the rest of
your emergency preparedness items and
you'll be really safe and secure in
terms of water filtration thank you and
take care